Okay, good afternoon.
My name's Doug Brooks.
I'm product manager for
server hardware at Apple,
and this session is XServe Deployment.
If we take a look, two years ago,
actually at this conference,
Steve Jobs gave us a little teaser
trailer of a new product announcement
that turned out to be announced
the following week in Cupertino.
And that announcement
turned out to be Xserve.
So Xserve as a product line
is just about two years old,
and it introduced, you know,
Apple technology.
You know, phenomenal at the time,
G4 processing power, great networking and
storage capabilities,
headless management,
remote management capabilities
in an Apple 1U form factor.
Not only great technology,
we happen to kind of think
it looks good as well.
But since then, we've come a long way.
I mean, if you think about two years ago,
we just embarked on this journey.
And you think of where we've come from
a hardware and a software perspective,
it's quite a bit.
Obviously,
we've introduced what we like to
now call the slot load Xserve,
kind of the speed bump to the product.
The cluster node bringing a
streamlined configuration.
The Xserve configuration for clustering
and more compute centered applications,
kind of removing the things
that you don't need for
nontraditional server applications.
And of course, most recently,
the Xserve G5 in January bringing
G5 power and technology
into this 1U form factor.
A big jump from there in just two years.
And of course on the software side,
just amazing innovation.
I like to think the original Xserve,
if you think about it,
shipped with Mac OS 10.1.5.
And since then, of course, Jaguar,
Panther, and of course this week hearing
about new features in Tiger,
just continuing to add to the pace of
innovation on the server software side.
And of course,
Xserve RAID bringing phenomenal
capacity and performance and a fiber
channel attached storage device,
really breaking the price barrier for
protected high performance storage.
And also when you look at
things like XSAN introduced,
be shipping this fall,
bringing a SAN file system to
Mac OS X with really excellent
storage and shared storage capability.
It's going to really change
the way storage can be
deployed on Mac OS X server.
And finally, third parties.
We've had phenomenal third party
adoption in the server and enterprise
space over the last two years.
More and more developers
bringing their products and
their technologies to Mac OS X.
It's an exciting growth in these
kinds of solutions and kind
of ways you can deploy Xserve.
And so we see customer
adoption really taking off,
especially with the Xserve
G5 bringing this power and
technology into the form factor.
Really see customers very excited and
doing great new things with Xserve.
Again, a lot of that has to do
with the G5 processor,
bringing that computational capability,
that bandwidth,
that throughput into that architecture.
But we also think it goes
beyond that and look at the
whole architecture as a whole,
really bringing balance of performance,
storage, and networking.
Along with remote management and
monitoring capabilities into just
a really well-rounded package.
And of course we've had lots of
great quotes and reviews and this
is one of the ones that just came
out recently which I really love.
It was a review in VAR business against
a Windows 2003 server and I think
the last line really sums it up.
Too impressive to pass up.
Just one of my favorite reviews recently.
So just phenomenal reception
of Xserve in this space.
And of course probably one of the best,
just it's really, really fast.
So this is a review of Xserve G5
in computer world just recently.
So what are we going to talk about today?
Well, first of all,
kind of the quick why XServe.
Touched a little bit on that.
Touched very quickly on just XServe G5.
And then really going to the
deployment side of this product,
taking a look at planning requirements,
deployment strategies.
We're also going to hear
from some customers,
including Apple's own IS&T group,
a little bit on how they
have deployed XServe.
And along the way,
hopefully pick up some practices and
guidelines that may help you as you're
looking at the XServe deployment.
So why XServe?
Well, again, you know,
we really think with XServe
we've really kind of broken the
mold of servers in this space.
Really bringing a great
mix of processing power,
networking, IO, storage,
all into a phenomenal 1U form
factor with great value and great
capabilities of Mac OS X Server.
And again, the G5 really has
raise the bar in capabilities for Xserve,
really bringing 64-bit computing
power that we're continuing to
tap into with Mac OS X Server.
And a phenomenal architecture.
With Xserve G5,
we've really redesigned the
architecture inside the box to
really bring higher throughput,
higher bandwidth into the system.
It's not just about the G5 processor.
It's about more memory bandwidth,
ECC memory capabilities,
PCIX capabilities,
serial ATA hard drives,
phenomenal networking bandwidth.
And not just bandwidth,
but new features like VLAN capability
and more hardware checksumming
capabilities in the chipset itself.
Just really bringing a
really server-based approach
into this architecture.
and other really important fact and
we'll touch on this a little bit
more in the planning segment but
With the G5,
we really have a great advantage
in that for the processor,
the amount of power and heat
that it outputs is significantly
lower than the competition.
And, you know, I like to joke,
you can put an Xserve anywhere.
You can put it in your office,
you can put it on a shelf,
you can put it really a single
Xserve just about anywhere.
But when you start putting
several of these on a single
power circuit in an enclosed room,
you start to have to really begin
to factor out into your equation
the environmental impacts of that.
I had a couple extra servers in my
office over the weekend planning for
some of the demos in this session,
and I had my door all closed up.
Coming in over the weekend,
the room was quite warm.
It just wasn't built for the kind
of cooling that's required to move
air through this number of machines.
And that's just with the lower
power and heat output of Xserve.
I also want to take a moment to
really comment on the thermal
design of the architecture.
This is something we take when
we design these systems very,
very seriously.
This is a very,
very rigorous design in the
thermal and the cooling system.
We're very much purist in this respect.
It's a pure front-to-back airflow,
very intelligently
monitored fans and systems.
We're leveraging the same technology
that was first introduced in the
Power Mac G5 with intelligent thermal
monitoring with thermal zones.
And while we don't have
independent thermal zones,
we have a tremendous amount of
monitoring and data coming off this
logic board to be able to control
how fast the fans should move.
And we're very much
purist in this respect.
It's a pure front-to-back airflow,
very intelligently
monitored fans and systems.
We're leveraging the same technology
that was first introduced in the
Power Mac G5 with intelligent thermal
monitoring with thermal zones.
And while we don't have
independent thermal zones,
we have a tremendous amount of
monitoring and data coming off this
logic board to be able to control
how fast the fans should move.
should run and make sure
everything's cooled to optimum
efficiency for best performance.
If you heard a customer comment
in one of the HPC sections,
who just installed a
cluster of 64 machines,
when he first came into the room,
he thought, "Oh, my God,
these things were really loud," and it
turned out there were two Dell servers
in the corner that he left on.
Turning them off, it was much quieter,
and that was a 64-machine cluster.
So we're pretty pleased that
for the power and air that we're
moving through this machine,
it is as quiet, if not quieter,
than the slot-load G4.
This is a look at power efficiency.
And this, again,
is a huge advantage as we look at this.
The processor in the XServe G5
is spec'd at about 55 watts.
So as we look at competing processors,
we see literally twice the power
performance going through those systems.
And more power means more cost.
You've got to pay for that power.
It means more cooling required.
You've got to pull the
heat out of the room.
And kind of the corollary to thermal,
the heat of the system,
is reliability because thermal
management goes directly into
the reliability of the system.
Another thing about the XServe G5 is
one of the key differentiators about the
XServe is that this system is designed
from the ground up as a server platform.
And that means not only really
striving at not just processor
performance but IO performance,
but it also means
monitoring and management.
And with XServe,
I like to joke it's one of the most
instrumented 1U servers in the industry.
We have, last count,
I think it was 38 sensors
on the logic board,
including 10 temperature sensors,
8 fan sensors,
voltage and current sensors
throughout the system.
We're literally monitoring
temperature of the incoming ambient
air through the front of the machine.
We're measuring the
processor temperature,
the core temperature,
the memory temperature,
the power supply temperature,
the PCI temperature,
which gives you outgoing
air temperature as well.
It's just a very well monitored server,
and it gives you a lot of insight.
Not only into how the
server itself is running,
but the general air flow
in your server environment.
If the ambient air alone is
coming in and is too warm,
you're going to know right away
there's an air flow situation,
cooling situations in your data center.
And of course this data is wrapped
up into our monitoring tools.
Server Monitor really providing
point and click access into the data
coming off of XServe G5 and able
to monitor one or multiple servers,
get email alerts, kind of the quick look.
Green is good,
yellow is a warning condition,
red's an error condition.
Being able to take advantage of
things like smart technology,
being able to do pre-failure
analysis on the hard drives is
a key feature in Server Monitor.
We've enriched Server Monitor quite
a bit with the new data that we're
now capturing off the XServe G5.
So for example, one of the new tabs in
Server Monitor is the memory tab,
which provides detailed error
reporting on ECC error counts.
And we actually provide that
information by individual DIMM.
So you can actually see what individual
DIMM might be flagging ECC errors,
should you see any.
And of course, Xserve of course comes
with Mac OS X Server.
So right out of the box,
unlimited client license and
our server configuration,
a broad range of server
services right out of the box.
Been able to handle a vast majority
of traditional server capabilities
with everything you need.
and of course with Tiger coming
we have new capabilities that are
being brought to the platform.
And of course you've heard all this
week about Tiger so I'm not going to
need to go into any more of it here.
But I will highlight one or two key
features that I think is going to
be useful as we look forward with
Xserve deployment with Tiger server.
So let's go into a little
bit about planning,
a little about some of the key
things that should be of concern when
you're looking at deploying Xserves,
even before you start kind of screwing
and gluing the machines together and
connecting them up to your network.
So the first thing I want to
touch on is physical requirements.
Being a rack-based system,
there are different things that
should be accounted for and
things that can be looked at.
So let's start with that.
So racking is probably one
of the most basic things,
probably one of the things
you might take for granted,
but it's kind of interesting
to look at some Xserve in
the scope of industry trends.
The continual convergence in the
server space toward thinner and
thinner servers is causing changes
in the way systems are racked.
We tend to see a lot more systems
put into a smaller amount of space,
more room for cable routing
and things become very,
very important.
Now with Xserve,
we've designed it to provide a pretty
wide range of racking capabilities,
but the reality is it's
a 28-deep-inch enclosure.
We recommend a 30- or deeper-inch
rack if you're doing a four-post rack.
It does support two-post racks,
of course, with Xserve RAID.
Not exactly something you'll
mount in a two-post rack at
about 100 pounds a piece,
so really four-post
racks are ideal for that.
and of course we provide all the
hardware needed right in the box
to mount those systems both in
English and metric threads in the box.
A couple of really important
things to consider,
even more so with XServe G5 is
that we're moving a tremendous
amount of air through the system.
XServe G5 we've doubled the CFM through
the box than the XServe G4 is.
So a pure front to back
air flow is really,
really important.
You don't want to put too many
units in small racks like this
that have an enclosed front.
You want to make sure you have proper
air flow coming in through the front of
the machine and out through the back.
That becomes really, really important.
The other thing,
if you're planning deployments with PDUs,
power distribution units
going up the back of the rack,
you really want to look at deeper racks.
The new kind of data center
trend is becoming moving
from 30 to 36 inches deep.
These tend to be the more popular
racks you see in data centers
that are being put in now.
And those have the extra room you
might need for PDU deployment.
The other thing that's important to
begin to think about if you're deploying
more than a few of these is weight.
XServe itself is, you know,
it's a dense server.
It's about 30 pounds a pop.
But when you put a lot
of these in a rack,
that's a lot of pounds per square
foot that you need to think about.
And if you add XServe RAIDs to that,
that even adds more
weight per square foot.
At Apple,
we have a cluster that we're installing.
It's a 32-node cluster in our
executive briefing center.
It's in a single rack.
And when we met with the facilities
people about installing it,
the first thing they had to do is pull
out the blueprints of the building
and make sure we were over a beam
so that the floor could support it.
It's actually something that
you might not think about.
But with the densities that
are happening in servers today,
that becomes an interesting thought.
There's a great section.
One of the kind of bibles for enterprise.
Enterprise data center planning
is actually a book by Sun called
Sun Enterprise Data Center Methodology.
It's in their blueprint series.
And they talk about planning
for server deployments.
And they tell a story
about bringing in an E10K,
which is their big kind
of mainframe SMP box.
And it weighs a couple thousand pounds.
And they say if you wouldn't drive
a BMW 3 Series up on top of the
race floor in your data center,
you wouldn't want to bring
one of these boxes in.
So it's the kind of things that
you probably don't think about the
floor being able to support this.
But it's a great book.
is something that starts to
need to be thought about.
The other thing that kind of goes along
with racking is good cable management.
And again, with the density and the
airflow requirements,
these all go hand in hand
with good cable management.
This is a picture of
an XServe deployment,
not exactly fully cable managed.
Another little story,
I was talking to a customer who had
installed the cable management arms in
the back of their machine and saw that
the airflow or the machines ran cooler
when the cables were properly managed.
And they thought for sure the cable
management arm was part of the
cooling solution of the XServe.
And actually,
it just turns out to be a benefit
of improved cable management,
being able to have air flow
through the system much better.
So keep in mind, cable management is an
important aspect of that.
You don't want to be blocking a lot of
rear panel room with cables and things.
And with multiple network cables and
power cables and fiber channel cables and
all the other cables that you might be
running out of the back of the machine,
in a one-use space,
that's a lot of cables
that need to go somewhere.
So, again, good racking also means
good cable management.
The other thing is just kind
of the core requirements.
Now, I'll reference you to a
knowledge base article.
We publish all this information
in our knowledge base.
If you go to info.apple.com
and search for Xserve and BT,
you'll see all this data published
there in kind of gory detail.
Xserve is very,
very efficient in its power and cooling,
but yet you do need to account for it.
These are some numbers for the
various Xserve configurations.
We provide numbers based on stock
configuration as well as fully loaded.
Fully loaded meaning, you know,
three hard drives running full
complement of memory in the system.
And you can see numbers anywhere
from about 130 watts to somewhere in
the 290 watts of power consumption.
And so, you know, it's a lot of work.
It's somewhere between 400 to 900 BTUs an
hour in that range of power consumption
and heat output calculated by the Xserve.
The power supply is
officially rated at 4 amps,
although in typical usage considerations,
you'll have a hard time finding
it go above about 2.2 amps in
real-world power consumption
after you bypass startup current.
As a matter of fact,
the compute node is very,
very efficient for the compute power
it delivers at full processor load.
memory since that system
tends to be configured really
just as processor in memory.
You know, 1.8 amps is pretty,
pretty common for that system.
So all this information we publish
very explicitly in our knowledge base,
and I'll point you to
that for further details.
Let's take a look now
at system configuration.
How do I configure these systems?
What kind of things
should I be considering?
Pretty common things,
but one of the first and most basic
things is how many processors.
So when we sell our systems,
we have two main server configurations,
a single processor and a dual processor.
There's some memory
differences between the two,
but the real differentiation between
the two systems and the two price
points is number of processors.
And since the processors
aren't upgradable later,
that's one of the first decisions
that you'll have to make.
Now, what's interesting about the G5
is it has so much performance.
The single processor system now can
solve a much broader range of tasks.
It's actually a very,
very powerful system for general
purpose server activities.
What's interesting, though,
is I've talked to a lot of customers
who begin migrating from older servers,
particular G3s or early G4 models,
up to Xserve G5s.
And they're being able
to consolidate systems.
You know, three or four blue and
white G3s into one Xserve.
And so, you know, having the processing
power to back that up,
the storage throughput,
the networking throughput,
compared to what those
systems are capable of,
you have that flexibility.
And, again, since we can't add a
second processor later,
for situations where you
want that flexibility,
that freedom of growth later, you know,
having that second processor is ideal.
The other thing is.
You know, the storage.
Now, Xserve G5,
one of the differences between
that and the G4 is a change
from four drives to three.
And that was done mainly to improve air
flow and meet the thermal requirements
that we had to meet for the Xserve G5.
Now, the implications are that with
the larger serial ATA drives
that we're working with,
the actual net capacity
is still 750 gigabytes.
You know, nearly three-quarters of a
terabyte in a one U form factor.
There's actually a tremendous
amount of storage there.
What it really changes, though.
Is the way you deploy
your RAID configurations.
So, with software RAID built in,
you can do mirroring and
striping built into the system.
And we'll talk more about
RAID in a little bit.
And then we offer 80 gigabyte
hard drives for basic boot drives.
And so, between three drives,
you have a number of configurations.
And, of course,
you always have the ability
to go out the back through
fiber channel to XServe RAID,
which gives you a lot more flexibility.
You have more RAID level options.
More capacity options.
A lot of flexibility
through fiber channel.
The ability to add
XSAN initially or later on.
And, of course,
one of the big benefits is you can
have with XServe RAID is you can
have multiple servers attaching
to the same XServe RAID unit.
So, as a simple example here,
we have four XServes connecting through
a fiber channel switch to a single
XServe RAID that we've partitioned and
sliced so that each has their own little
private volume on a shared XServe RAID.
So, again, for the XServe RAID,
we have a lot of flexibility.
So, again, for certain levels of storage,
this might actually be a better
solution than stuffing more
storage inside an XServe itself.
As a matter of fact,
having independence of your data
independent of the server itself
gives you tremendous flexibility
as you redeploy servers,
change their roles, migrate services from
one server to another.
This gives you tremendous flexibility
as you look at those options.
I also wanted to talk a little bit
about the cluster node configuration.
Now, as I mentioned up front,
the cluster node configuration
was really -- I think it was a
little bit more complicated than
it was in the previous slides.
But it was a little bit more complicated
than it was in the previous slides.
So, again, for certain levels of storage,
this might actually be a better
solution than stuffing more
storage inside an XServe itself.
So, again, as I mentioned up front,
the cluster node configuration
was really designed and tailored
for compute applications.
You know, traditional clusters,
high-performance computing
clusters and things like that.
But what's interesting is that it
does have a role for other kind
of roles beyond just clusters.
You know,
keeping in mind that the compute
node is a dual processor system
with a single hard drive,
it becomes really interesting as kind
of the appliance version of XServe.
It's really great for static services
like things like VPN servers.
Network services.
Things where you don't need storage,
but you might want the processing
power and the networking
capability that it provides.
Now, one thing you do have to keep
in mind is that it ships with
a 10-user license in Mac OS X.
So, you know,
you're probably not going to
deploy this as a file server.
And it's really not the role there.
And by the time you add that license,
you may decide just to go up to
the full server configuration.
But for a number of other applications,
especially network services,
application services,
where the limitation on the number of
file user connections has no impact,
all the other OS X services
are fully unlimited.
So, again,
I use -- this is a great VPN server,
for example.
And the 10-user license has no
impact on that kind of role.
So that's something also that you can
keep in mind because you can get a
dual processor system for a lot lower
price and take advantage of that.
and take advantage of those
features if it's appropriate.
The other thing about these
systems is that you have
much greater RAM capability.
And for applications that
really appreciate RAM,
you have a lot more
headroom in the Xserve G5.
With Panther Server, again,
we can put up to 8 gigabytes of RAM.
It's ECC RAM,
so you have that protection there.
And for applications that will
take advantage of that RAM,
you have that capability.
And of course, with Tiger Server,
being able to bring 64-bit
user space applications and to
allocate much larger memory,
we get even more capabilities as
we look down the road toward Tiger.
Another thing I want to talk a
little bit about is networking.
Now with Xserve G5,
we now have dual copper gigabit Ethernet
ports right on the back of the machine.
They're very high performance
gigabit Ethernet ports with
a number of key capabilities.
They have very large packet buffers.
They have the ability to do jumbo frames.
We've added VLAN capabilities into the
operating system for VLAN operations.
And so the bandwidth that we're able
to provide out of the machine is much,
much greater.
And of course,
you can add multiple port Ethernet cards.
We have a single port
available from Apple,
multiple port cards from
other third parties.
SmallTree Communications in particular
has a number of cards that are available.
And so we're very excited to
see that coming to Tiger is
network link aggregation.
So you'll see that in Tiger Server.
I think that's going to give you
a lot more bandwidth out of XServe
G5 and be able to take these two
ports and provide more bandwidth.
And of course you can also configure
it in a failover configuration.
So that will be available to you
when Tiger Server is available.
Of course that solution is available
today for Panther from a third party.
SmallTree also has that
software as an add-on.
So for people looking
for that capability now,
you do have a way to add that
on to the operating system.
And finally, a number of options that are
available directly from Apple,
most particularly some
of the new I/O cards,
PCIX SCSI card, for example,
dual channel Ultra 320 card,
particularly handy for SCSI-based
raids that you may have in
your architecture already,
and also very popular for
backup devices in particular.
I want to talk a little
bit about load and usage.
So this is a little bit of a table
out of a knowledge base article,
again,
that we published on our support site.
And again, I'll point you to that article
for the nitty gritty details.
This is a list of tested and theoretical
limits in the operating system.
We've got a lot of people asking
about scaling guidelines and how
many users can I put on an Xserve.
And the reality is that's a really
hard problem to answer without
knowing a whole bunch of variables
about your network architecture,
about the kind of data that
they're moving back and forth,
the frequency of IO operations
and things like that.
So this table provides
kind of a baseline,
kind of the minimum,
maximum capabilities in the operating
system as the big guidelines.
And then beyond that,
there have been a number of
kind of informal rules of thumb.
There are a number of rules of thumb
that have emerged that can help
provide some further guidance on that.
And I wanted to provide a few
here that I wanted to point at.
From a file server perspective, you know,
one of the things that really
has heavy impact on the number
of users that a single server can
support is the network architecture,
the bandwidth,
and the size of files that are
being moved on and off the server.
For example, you know,
a user moving Word files,
saving Word files occasionally is
a lot different from a user moving,
you know, 40 gigabyte Photoshop images
back and forth.
With home directories becoming
more and more popular,
that also has a little
higher load on the server,
and that's something to
calculate into in mind as well.
Also, the move toward more centralized
directory services is something
to take a look at as you're
setting up directory servers.
The number of users who are online.
authenticating concurrently become a
factor that you need to take a look at.
What's interesting with XServe G5 is
that we've seen some pretty phenomenal
scalability on Netboot servers.
We've seen the ability to put a lot
higher number of machines on Netboot and
some tests that we've been able to do.
Still, that depends heavily on the
level of performance and the
networking that you're looking for.
But we've had deployments where
we've put as many as 150 iMac
clients on a single XServe.
And not that that's a
recommended configuration,
but to know that it scales
that high is pretty phenomenal.
The other thing is QuickTime streaming.
QuickTime streaming is another one where
you really need to be able to look at
the size of media that you're streaming,
the bandwidth that
you're able to provide.
You're almost always limited by the
network bandwidth outgoing before the
server will be the limiting factor.
So let's move on and talk a
little bit more about deployment.
So we've moved from planning
on to actual deployment.
So again, kind of the first thing is,
again, looking at the most common uses
that Xserve is deployed upon.
And again, if you look at the list,
these are the services that are, again,
built right into Mac OS X Server.
You know, the interesting thing about
this class of server is that,
you know, by far the most typical uses
are things like file and print,
network services, mail services,
web services, email services.
And we just have phenomenal
network services built right
into the operating system.
And this is, of course,
some of the most popular
deployments used with Xserve.
A couple of important things.
I get asked a lot about
software installation when
you get a brand new Xserve.
Do I need to go ahead and
reformat it right out of the box?
The configuration that ships in the
factory after the whole factory process
is actually the exact same thing
that you get right on the hard drive.
But the reality is most system
administrators really prefer to
reload the operating system and
know exactly how it's configured.
The other thing is the impact of having
to reconfigure the drives for the
software RAID levels that you're looking
for will require reinstallation as well.
We're going to talk a little bit
about headless administration and
setup assistant in just a minute.
But with the remote setup tools,
you actually have a very robust way to
completely setup and get your server
right out of the box without ever needing
to hook up a keyboard and a monitor.
And these are tools that we've
worked really hard to make sure
that we're able to do that.
Thank you.
And of course,
software update provides an easy
way to get your server up to date
with the latest security updates,
software updates that are
available directly from Apple.
The other thing is when you're
deploying multiple servers,
it's very common to image a single server
and clone that onto other machines.
With the removable
drive modules built in,
that becomes really,
really easy with the capabilities
right in the operating system.
And of course with front panel target
disk mode being available to you,
you can literally just with a short
firewire cable clone one complete
server installation to a second server
right using front panel firewire.
So that becomes very handy.
So speaking of front panel mode,
I wanted to provide a
latest update on this.
One of the new capabilities in Xserve G5,
we've actually added a new
capability to the front panel mode.
So by holding down the front panel
button on the system identifier
button on the front of Xserve,
we can perform almost all the
operations you used to be able to
perform by holding down special keys,
snag keys, zapping the PRAM,
target disk mode, things like that.
This is also referenced in a knowledge
base article on our website as well.
So obviously things like net
boot and capabilities like that,
boot from CD,
target disk mode are available.
You'll see though on Xserve
G5 we added a new one,
option number 8.
We reserved that one for
future use and this is it.
We've added a diagnostics mode
built right into the Xserve.
And so by selecting a diagnostics mode,
you can actually have the
system boot up over the network.
So we've added a new one called
Xserve Remote Diagnostics.
It's a new feature on Xserve G5
called Xserve Remote Diagnostics.
And it's particularly handy if you
have a larger installation of Xserves.
What you need to do is
set up a net boot server,
turn on the net boot feature,
and put the diagnostics and activate
the diagnostics image on that Xserve.
and David The diagnostics tools are
based directly on the tools we use in the
factory when testing our own machines.
They're extremely thorough and some of
the most robust tests that are available.
As a matter of fact,
some of the tests that we use
for testing the CPU and the
memory are absolutely phenomenal.
There have been papers written on
the algorithms used that we use
to do things like testing memory.
And so those tests are available
to you now directly through
these remote diagnostics tools.
And so by holding down the front panel,
you can put the machine
into a diagnostics mode.
If this machine's in a known running
state and you just want to test it,
by using the command line tool,
you can go in and activate it
and it will boot in diagnostics
mode and then return to the known
operating system when complete.
If it is in an unknown state, you know,
you've got a machine,
you don't know if it's working right,
doesn't seem to be booting right,
you can use that front
panel mode to trigger it.
And then trigger this from a machine
on your same subnet to run the client
to run those diagnostics tools.
What's really interesting
about these tools is that
there's a configuration file.
We provide out of the
box two diagnostic tests,
a short test and a long test.
And one's kind of a quick peek at the key
functions and one's a much deeper test.
These are text files that you can
configure and you can configure
these to run very specific tests.
If you're really interesting,
you've got a new batch of memory,
you can run a new batch of memory
and you just want to run the
memory tests over and over to
test the integrity of your memory.
You have that ability just
to help tell the test,
create a custom file that runs just
memory tests and really burn that
memory in as you've added to the system.
So very flexible and this is
something that we are really
excited to get into the system.
So, I wanted to talk a little bit
more about remote management
and headless operations.
One of the big things that we
did with the XServe G5 is that
we made the video card optional.
And there's been a little
bit of issue with that.
People who are used to having that
video card there in the XServe G4.
This is something that we've been working
to and we're finally at the point where
we believe the remote management tools
are really robust enough to give you
a number of ways to manage the system.
Now,
obviously for people who want the video
card and want to be able to use it,
for example,
if KVM switches on your network,
it's an easy option
to add to your system.
But we've also worked very hard on
things like the remote management tools,
the remote setup assistant to make
sure that you can do everything that
you need to do through those tools.
So, out of the box,
you have the ability without ever
hooking up a keyboard or a mouse
to be able to rack the system,
power it up on your network
and set it up remotely.
So,
that's a really good way to get started.
And then, of course,
you can also use the remote setup tools.
As a matter of fact,
with some of the new capabilities
that were introduced last
year in Panther Server,
you can take advantage of
tools like auto server setup,
where from a configuration file
either on a thing like an iPod,
a USB key, or even an LDAP server,
if you're setting up a
large number of machines,
the machines can go to
that reference file,
configure themselves automatically,
The other thing that becomes interesting
is Apple Remote Desktop for that
remote screen sharing presence
where you want to really have that
GUI management perspective but
want to be able to hit it remotely.
Apple Remote Desktop really
becomes a great tool to use here,
especially the new version of
Apple Remote Desktop version 2.
It gives you a number
of new capabilities.
You can almost think of this
as a virtual KVM switch.
So from a PowerBook anywhere,
you can connect remotely into
your XServe and manage it.
As a matter of fact,
with the VNC capabilities,
you could even manage your XServe with
a GUI session from a PC running VNC.
So this becomes very, very powerful.
That plus the ability to run shell
scripts and push out software to a
large number of machines make it a
really attractive way to manage XServes.
And it's something you might
want to consider adding to
your remote management tools.
We'll do a demo in a little bit and
we'll be using Apple Remote Desktop.
What's neat about what we've
done in the Xserve setup is we've
added Apple Remote Desktop right
in the remote setup assistant.
So when you're walking through the
setup tools by turning on one checkbox,
you can automatically enable
Apple Remote Desktop for the system
administrator user that you create when
you go through the setup assistant.
So from there on out,
you can manage the system completely
through Apple Remote Desktop.
and of course for the command line users,
we have really made a lot of effort in
Panther to add more command line tools,
to upgrade the man pages and
really make command line a very
robust way to manage the system.
So for command line users who
want to script and automate things
and really take advantage of the
management tools at that level,
that becomes a very equal
way to manage the system.
As a matter of fact, a lot of people,
you might not be aware of this,
but we actually provide
off our install CDs,
boot CD1, when you boot up that CD,
SSH is actually enabled.
So you can actually install the operating
system and manage it from the CD at
that time while booted from the CD.
The username is root, of course,
because it's a single user
on the CD and the password,
just like the remote setup assistant,
is the first eight digits of the CD.
So that becomes an access method as well.
I want to point out there's a phenomenal
command line administration guide that's
available from the server website.
And if you're a command line user and
want to know all the subtle nuances of
some of the unique Mac OS X commands,
tools that might be a little bit
different from other Unix distributions,
if you're coming from a Linux or
a Solaris environment and want to
become adept at some of the unique
tools that are available on Mac OS X,
highly recommend the command
line user administration guide.
It's just one of many,
many documentation pieces that we make
available on our website for download.
But it really goes into the
depths of the command line tools.
So again,
with the remote management tools that
we provide in the operating system,
server monitor for monitoring
the hardware and providing
in-depth view into Xserve itself,
server admin and work group manager,
all these tools can be managed
remotely from another Mac OS X client.
They work over an encrypted and
authenticated link and provide just
a great remote management experience.
So with that,
I'd like to introduce Greg Smith,
who's going to come up and
help me with a demo here.
So we actually have two
Xserves here on stage.
And we're going to pull up
Server Monitor and take a look
at some of the new values that we
make available in Server Monitor.
So looking at the first server here,
we have an info tab,
and we can kind of get all the
high-level information about this system.
We see here that we have
a dual 2 gigahertz system.
We have the serial number available.
One button gets you a complete
Apple system profile report,
which is a great tool
for asset management.
Some of the unique things that
are in the new version for
XServe G5 are the memory tab.
As I mentioned, with XServe G5,
we now have ECC memory in the system.
We're actually tracking ECC memory
errors by individual DIMM in the system.
So should you ever see ECC error counts,
and they should almost always be zero,
but you'll be able to see exactly
what DIMM is causing those problems.
And, of course, they're automatically
corrected on the fly,
so you don't have to
necessarily worry about them,
but you'll be able to understand what's
happening with that individual DIMM.
The power tab has added a tremendous
amount of more information.
We have many more sensors on the board.
We're able to monitor voltages of
many core ASICs in the systems,
voltages coming off the power supplies.
And one of the ones I really
like is the power pop-up,
which provides real-time calculated
power of the two CPUs and watts.
So we're able to calculate voltage
and power coming right into the CPU.
So if you pull in the power supply there,
go to processor power.
At the top there, Greg,
on the power supply tab, go to power.
There we go.
We'll actually see in real time
the wattage being consumed by the
dual processors in the system.
So you mentioned,
remember the earlier graph that
I mentioned that the processors are
typically about 55-watt max processors.
Well, in idle, as they're sitting here,
they're barely in the teens, you know,
just sitting around idling.
So, again, very efficient on power.
Other tabs that are interesting
are the temperature tab.
We have 10 temperature sensors.
We can see the inlet temperatures
in the systems coming in.
If you go to blowers,
we'll see the real-time fan
speeds in all the system.
and David If you go to
the blower tab there,
Greg, you'll see the different blower
speeds that are in the system.
Now, one of the things you may notice
on this system is that we have a
yellow light on the hard drive.
So if we click on that,
we'll go instantly to the drive tab and
you'll see that we're running RAID here.
The system is actually booted from a
software RAID mirror in the system.
So we have two drives in the
system that were mirrored together.
We actually failed one intentionally.
You can see the rate status
is shown as degraded.
So why don't we explore that
a little further if we go into
Apple Remote Desktop and go into a
remote control session on that machine.
We can actually launch Disk Utility
and find out a little bit more about
what's happening with that system.
If we click on the boot mirror,
we'll see on the RAID tab
that we have a drive missing.
We actually lost a drive in the mirror.
It's continuing to operate normally.
What's interesting, though,
is now we need to solve that problem.
Now, in previous versions of OS X,
we actually had to boot from the
CD and rebuild that mirror offline.
Well,
one of the new features that shipped
in 10.3.2 that we got in for Xserve
G5 is the ability to rebuild a
mirror online while it's running.
So if we go ahead and drag
that spare drive in the system,
go ahead and add it, and click Rebuild.
and David What we'll actually do is
the rebuild process now lives in the
driver and it will actually go ahead
and begin rebuilding that drive.
Now it's an 80 gig drive,
it's going to take about 30
minutes or so to rebuild.
But what's interesting about
this is that we don't even need
to be running disk utility.
We could actually quit out of disk
utility while that rebuild begins.
and David Notice our
system is still running.
We're starting that rebuild online.
And we can actually begin copying data,
if we'd want to, copy data to that drive.
Showing that the drive is
still fully operational.
If we go ahead and launch Disk Utility.
A little hard screening the screen,
right?
So while that copy is going ahead,
we'll go back into disk utility.
Even though we quit out of it before,
you'll actually see that that
rebuild is continuing to take place.
So while we're copying data,
we're serving data,
the system's still online.
and David M.
Schaffer will be here.
I hope the copy and the RAID continue
to operate in parallel there.
So for raid mirroring,
I think we got you covered with great
online rebuilding of that system.
So that's the first XServe.
We actually happen to have a
second XServe in that rack.
And it has a little option in it
called the hardware raid card.
So when we introduced XServe in January,
we announced that we're going
to offer a hardware RAID card.
It's a PCI card that has a
serial ATA controller on it and a
processor to provide hardware RAID.
It actually provides 0, 1,
and 5 capabilities,
64 meg of RAID controller cache,
and a backup battery.
And I'm very pleased to say that
the software just went final on it.
And so we're actually able
to demo that to you today.
So the command line,
the tool to manage the hardware
RAID card is a command line tool.
So it will be accessed and
configured through the command line.
And so by SSHing into
the machine remotely,
we can actually take
a look at the machine.
We have a system here that has
three internal hard drives.
They're 250 gigabyte hard drives.
And so we can see the three
volumes that are available.
We actually, again,
failed a drive here to
show that it's degraded,
but it continues to operate normally.
If we go ahead and look at
the configuration itself,
one of the unique features of the
hardware RAID card is it allows you
to create multiple logical volumes.
So what we did is we created a
50 gigabyte boot volume that's
RAID 5 protected and roughly a
450 gigabyte volume that's on
the same physical drives but it's
almost like a separate partition.
And that's around a 450
gigabyte volume there.
And we have both those
volumes available now.
And again,
we're in the process of rebuilding
those because it's RAID 5 protected.
We have that protection
available with the RAID 5 system.
So we're very excited about that and
we'll be able to get that shipping very,
very shortly.
is real and coming to an XServe near you.
Thank you, Greg.
We can go back to slides.
Last thing I wanted to talk
about in the deployment section
was a little bit on backup.
Now,
there was a whole backup session here at
the conference this year and hopefully
you had an opportunity to attend that.
One of the big things that we're seeing
with backup is backup continues to be
a huge challenge in server deployment.
The reality is that more and
more data is being kept online
for a variety of reasons,
including legal compliance reasons.
There's more data being shurned, right,
when you're working with large
files or working with large content.
The amount of data that needs
to be backed up on a delta
basis is becoming much larger.
And the reality is that there are no
down times in server operation anymore,
right?
It's a 24 by 7 internet access world.
There's always someone
accessing your website,
always someone accessing your data.
So the fact is that the backup windows,
the opportunities for
backup are shrinking.
The other really hard reality is that,
and I remember years ago,
I used to back up my entire
40 gig hard drive on a 40 gig,
40 megabyte hard drive, excuse me,
40 megabyte hard drive on
a single 40 megabyte tape.
It was really easy just
to back up everything.
The fact is these large,
large hard drives just aren't keeping up,
or the tape capacities are just
not keeping up with these large,
large hard drives.
And the fact is while RAID provides
tremendous data protection,
matter of fact, looking at the solutions
that we just looked at here,
RAID is not backup.
Even a mirror,
if you get a virus or some kind
of corruption that appears,
it happens on both drives.
So RAID is not backup.
Great news is that we're seeing a
tremendous number of industry solutions
being available on the platform.
And again, if you were able to attend
the backup session today,
you're seeing a number of enterprise
solutions available for anything from
single server local backup to work
group backup to enterprise backup
being available to you on Mac OS X.
As a matter of fact,
the number of clients and server
solutions continues to grow.
And we're seeing more and
more options available to you.
The main thing I wanted to just
touch on is the growing trend
toward disk-to-disk backup.
So with the capacity that our
servers are able to hold today,
alternative backup strategies
are becoming very important.
And being able to do things
like disk-to-disk backup,
staging server backup to disk
for performance and speed
and quick accessibility,
as well as adding capabilities
like disk-to-disk to tape is
a trend that's not going away.
We're seeing more and more
software add this capability.
software add this capability,
which is becoming very, very attractive.
The low price point of storage,
especially solutions
like XR-RAID become very,
very attractive for this class of backup.
So it gives you a way to
provide massive backup at very,
very high rates of speed.
Something to consider as you look
at large backup requirements.
Another thing I wanted to
touch on is high availability.
If you've heard in some
of the sessions this week,
Tiger Server will add some
new availability options to
the server operating system.
In Panther,
we continue to have IP failover
capabilities to provide a script-driven
failover operation between key
services running on your server.
These are particularly
ideal for static services,
so not things like file services,
but more things like streaming
services and web services.
These are built right into the operating
system and give you a great capability.
If we look at it from
a diagram standpoint,
you can have a master server and a backup
server with a heartbeat between the two,
such that if one interface should fail,
the services would fall over
to the secondary server.
Because it's all script-driven,
you have the ability to reprioritize load
or even terminate load that you may not
want to keep around in that situation.
It gives you a very flexible way
to... to manage those services.
What's interesting, our tools like rsync,
now the IP failover architecture
itself doesn't move data,
but with added services like rsync,
you have the ability to
replicate data between services,
between servers themselves.
As a fact, you can use it for two-way
replication so that you have failover
both ways between two servers,
as an example here.
What's also very interesting is that
as we see technologies like XSAN come
to the market later this year,
it's going to give you a number of
new ways to be able to scale out
services across multiple servers.
So being able to provide much higher
availability across a higher number of
servers for higher performance allows
you to think kind of differently in
the way you deploy your servers and
your storage in a large environment.
Okay, so we talked a little bit
about XServe deployment.
What I would now like to do is introduce
two guest speakers who are going to talk
a little bit about their deployments.
First customer I'd like to introduce
is Eric Senf from F&W Publishing.
He's going to talk to you a little
bit about how he's using XServe.
Eric.
Thank you.
I'm Eric Senf.
I'm the system support team leader and
network engineer at F&W Publications.
During the last year,
it's been very exciting some
of the technology opportunities
that we've had with,
or some of the opportunities we've
had with this new Apple technology.
We're one of the oldest and
fastest growing special interest
publishers in the world right now.
We publish nearly 60 magazines.
We've got a huge book operation and
our portfolio is continuing to grow.
Because of this,
this is placing a load on storage
server growth across the enterprise.
We've got operations
currently in Cincinnati,
Iowa, Wisconsin, Devon, England, Boston,
Denver, New York, Savannah, and Herndon,
Virginia and growing.
About 1100 employees total.
Across these 10 locations we've
currently got about 75 servers.
We only have on-site IT presence
at two of these facilities.
We rely very, very heavily on remote
management and administration.
We've also got a highly
heterogeneous Windows 2000
Active Directory based environment.
We're running Exchange, SQL Server,
which we're doing heavy
database publishing from.
We've got Suns, AS400s,
and we're running the
Oracle Financial System.
We're about two-thirds PC,
about a third Mac.
Two-thirds of our Macs
have been moved to OS X.
We've got about 10 terabytes
of online data right now,
and that's growing at a very rapid pace.
The first application that we've
got with the XServe has been in an
enterprise file print service sector.
Right now in our Iola,
Wisconsin office we have a
single Apple XServe and XRAID.
We're running OS X Server 10.3.
We're configured to do both
AFP and SMB file services.
The neat thing about this is we're
fully integrated with our multi-domain,
multi-site Windows 2000
based Active Directory.
Services that we're providing,
we've currently got over
one terabyte of production
critical data on these systems.
It's continually being
accessed by over 100 users.
We're backing these
systems up using Windows,
a Windows 2003 backup server
running Veritas Backup Exec 9.
and our pre-press director is currently
begging us to move the rest of his
production data over to these servers.
The benefits that we're
getting from this,
this is drastically less
expensive per gigabyte than any
other solution that we've had.
We've got higher performance than
any other platform that we've used.
We're seeing real world,
probably five to 800% performance
increase in this migration
at about a third of the cost.
This has also brought another
interesting aspect into our organization.
This is the fastest server currently
in our environment to backup.
Now again,
we are using a Windows 2003 backup server
running Veritas Backup Exec 9 and their
agent on the XServe to do our backups.
So it's integrated in with the rest
of our enterprise backup solution.
One volume alone that we were
struggling with was our book
production volume in Wisconsin.
We cut an almost 24-hour backup
window down to 8 hours once we'd
moved the data over to the XServe.
Another exciting thing that we've been
doing with XSERVs because of their
really low cost and high performance
from a CPU standpoint is enterprise
spam and antivirus filtering.
We've got two Apple XServes with a gig
of RAM running OS X Server 3.3 or 10.3.3.
We're using one of the leading
open source antivirus solutions
and we're also using an open source
anti-spam solution called ASSP.
We are geographically diverse and
load balanced with our servers.
The services that are currently being
provided from this are enterprise
wide antivirus and spam screening for
multiple email domains doing hundreds
of thousands of messages per week.
And as everyone knows with all
the wonderful joys of email,
those loads are continually going up.
Some of the benefits that we've
gotten from this is it is a stable,
high performance, open source platform.
Small one-use server footprint so
we're not putting large appliances
or configurations in our data center.
And this is tens of thousands of
dollars less than any other vendor
solution that we considered and
evaluated since it's based on open
source software and leveraging the
performance of Apple's servers.
In summary, bringing the Xserves into our
heterogeneous IT environment has
improved performance and reduced cost.
Again,
everything that we brought this in,
saving tens of thousands of
dollars on email screening,
5-800% performance increase
at a third of the cost.
It's really impacting our IT bottom line.
We're continuing with
further deployments,
remote office deployments of
the servers because of ease
of administration remotely.
But one of the things we're most
excited about are the new features
that Tiger are going to bring.
With the ACLs, or active-based security
on the file system,
failover clustering,
and cross-platform file locking,
this is giving us an
opportunity to take not only our
publishing and production data,
but our business data,
and move this and consolidate
this down onto Xserves and use
this as our enterprise-wide
file print server solution.
Thank you, Eric.
So I'd now like to
introduce Richard Moon.
You've heard a lot about this week.
If you may have heard reference to
servers in the sky around .Mac services,
you may be wondering where those
systems are kept and operated.
And Richard is responsible for data
center operations and our ICT group.
He's going to talk to us a little
bit about Xserve deployment there.
I'm here to talk about
the RxServe deployment.
I'll tell you a little bit about
our ICT environment at Apple.
Just give you a brief.
We have a large data center.
We, ICT for Apple,
does all the infrastructure
support for all of Apple globally.
We have three major regions, Europe, US,
and Asia.
Our US data center supports SAP, CRM,
the Apple retail stores,
Apple store online, iTunes, music store,
and the .Mac globally.
We have small server rooms in Cork,
that's for Europe,
and in Singapore for Asia.
And these just support small,
they support email and language
specific things for the regions,
as well as maybe like
VPN and that type of thing.
I'm going to steal Eric's line.
We definitely were asked
to drink our own champagne.
It's a much better term than
something about dog food.
Currently we have about 300 Xserves
deployed and about 18 XRAIDs
deployed in our data center.
Here's some of the uses that
we're using for web servers,
web applications servers, DNS, FTP, VPN,
home directories using AFP, NFS servers,
SNMP mail relay servers,
email broadcast servers,
so things like that.
Emails are coming from E-News, iTunes,
New Music Tuesdays.
Those are coming from Xserves.
Messaging servers,
Java application servers.
and David So the biggest challenge,
the biggest migration for us off of the,
in the data center, so in our data center
we have a lot of AIX,
IBM AIX hosts and Solaris environment
for a production data center.
Our first gain for the XServe,
migrated XServe was off
of the Sun hardware.
This has been a substantial
savings for Apple.
The performance from going to a
Sun to XServe has been amazing.
We have a lot of servers,
web servers are running virtually idle.
The speed is excellent.
And this was a, we were really surprised,
we over architected the environment.
We weren't sure of what the performance
would be like and the stability in that.
So we do all our web servers
and web objects in clusters,
sitting behind a load balancer.
So if we were to lose an XServe, we,
the business wouldn't be impacted.
We do have to have maximum uptime.
And then we were very surprised
with the speed and the uptime.
And we actually are, have done,
started deploying many web servers on
a cluster because of the performance
and the XServe can handle it with ease.
In the past, XServes for us,
because we run a lot of
Java applications on XServe,
our limitation was on the memory.
And with the XServe,
we had to run a lot of Java applications.
And with the G5 XServe,
that's not going to be a problem.
Our standard configuration,
because we are standards based, you know,
because we have a data center,
is to run dual CPU,
at the time it was all four drives,
varying with two gigs of memory.
So moving forward with the G5 XServe,
we're going to be deploying dual G5 CPUs
with two gigs of memory and eight gigs
of memory as a standard configuration.
And then that way,
any Java applications that
require a lot of memory or any,
you know, a lot of memory,
we're going to be able to run them.
And then we're going to be able to run
them on a lot of different devices.
And then we're going to be able
or any applications that do
require a lot of member footprint,
will migrate to those.
Yeah, sorry.
[Transcript missing]
This is a current photo of the
Xserves in our data center.
We call it the Xrow for it's on display
because we do a lot of tours and that.
And actually we're migrating off of this.
All these Xservers are going
to move into a new area,
a new part of the data center.
And we're actually going to go upon
recommendations to hot and cold rows.
So the fronts of the Xserves or even
other data center equipment will actually
face out for all the cool air to come in.
And then go through the back and then
the air will rise and go up out the back.
So that's a recommendation
that we're taking advantage of.
And this is another close
up view of our deployment.
So how we're managing monitoring is,
so our primary tool for the
data center is HP OpenView ITO.
They currently don't have an ITO agent,
but we were easily able to get that
brought into our monitoring tools.
We just run a Perl script
that is able to grab,
gather the information,
the same information if you're
using ITO on other platforms,
supported platforms.
And then we also take advantage
of all the Apple server
applications like server monitor,
remote desktop,
RAID admin tools are very, very useful.
And those with ITO, we're able to monitor
the systems closely.
In our production data center,
we use Tivoli Storage Manager for
backup and recovery.
We worked with Tivoli to beta test
and make their software much better.
And so now there is an agent for.
The agent for OS X on Xserve.
And that's what we have.
Our view of the Xserve or any server
in the data center would be we want
to treat everything the same way.
And we treat OS X as
any other Unix platform.
So in summary,
we've been extremely pleased with
the performance of the Xserve.
We were really caught off guard at
how well it was going to perform.
I'll take a step back here.
So we currently have about
24 Xserves in a cabinet.
And the reason why we decided to do that,
not to go with a full rack,
because some issues with power and space.
But then we used to have a lot
of towers as well in the past,
the G3s and G4 towers.
And you could get eight in a cabinet.
So we wanted to save a lot of,
make a substantial leap and save a lot of
foot space by going to 24 to a cabinet.
So you get a three to one ratio there.
This coming year, we're planning to add
about 80 to 100 Xserves.
We're going to add between
60 and 80 XRAIDs as well,
because the storage is cost
effective and very useful.
We have a lot of projects that
I couldn't list because we're still
in the process of migrating those
from other platforms to the Xserve.
So the number is just going to grow.
And I also want you to know,
whenever you go to Apple.com
or store.apple.com or even
the developer conference here,
all that is served by Xserve.
And lastly,
I just want to make sure that everybody
takes advantage of filing bugs.
And the team does a really good
job of keeping track of those
and working on your issues.
And they're definitely listening.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]